SDD 0024: Document new Tool Naming Scheme (#107)
projectsyn/documentation: docs/modules/SDDs/pages/0024-naming-scheme-v2.adoc

= SDD 0024 - Project Syn Tools Naming Scheme v2

:sdd_author:    Tobias Brunner
:sdd_owner:
:sdd_reviewers:
:sdd_date:      2020-10-23
:sdd_status:    draft
include::partial$meta-info-table.adoc[]

[NOTE]
.Summary
====
Naming is hard, this page helps to make it easy. It describes the rules to name Project Syn tools.
====

== Motivation

In xref:0002-naming-scheme.adoc[SDD 0002 - Naming Scheme] a naming scheme was defined for Project Syn tools which turned out to be sub-optimal.
The naming of the tools to be non-descriptive is a high barrier of entry in to the world of Project Syn.
This SDD describes a more descriptive naming scheme which solves this issue.

=== Goals

* Naming scheme which is descriptive
* Applicable to all new tools from now on

=== Non-Goals

* Renaming of existing tools (like Lieutenant, Steward and Commodore) as they will change over time anyways, ultimately being replaced by newer tools.

== Design Proposal

`syn-$type[-$purpose]`

`$type`:: Describes what kind of tool it is.
+
Examples for types:

* Operator
* Agent
* CLI

> * Component

Reviewer: For components we set on the naming scheme `component-$purpose` (without the `syn-` prefix), should we really change all the components?

Author: I see... This SDD only applies to the tooling, not the the components. The example might be misleading.

`[-$purpose]`:: Optional to describe purpose of the tool

Examples:

* syn-cli-compile
* syn-operator-tenant
* syn-agent

== Drawbacks

> Descriptive names will tie functionality of the tooling to the name.

Reviewer 2: I don't consider that a drawback. This clearly defines the tool's purpose. If a purpose of a tool changes over time, it might be necessary to move it to its own tool.

Author: I'll rephrase it.

Author: Reworded and added one more drawback.

= SDD 0024 - Project Syn Tools Naming Scheme v2

:sdd_author:    Tobias Brunner
:sdd_owner:
:sdd_reviewers:
:sdd_date:      2020-10-23
:sdd_status:    draft
include::partial$meta-info-table.adoc[]

[NOTE]
.Summary
====
Naming is hard, this page helps to make it easy. It describes the rules to name Project Syn tools.
====

== Motivation

In xref:0002-naming-scheme.adoc[SDD 0002 - Naming Scheme] a naming scheme was defined for Project Syn tools which turned out to be sub-optimal.

> The naming of the tools to be non-descriptive is a high barrier of entry in to the world of Project Syn.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Having tools with non-descriptive names increases the (already relatively high) barrier of entry into the world of Project Syn.
```

This SDD describes a more descriptive naming scheme which solves this issue.

=== Goals

* Naming scheme which is descriptive
* Applicable to all new tools from now on

=== Non-Goals

* Renaming of existing tools (like Lieutenant, Steward and Commodore) as they will change over time anyways, ultimately being replaced by newer tools.

== Design Proposal

`syn-$type[-$purpose]`

`$type`:: Describes the kind of the tool.
+
Examples for types:

* Operator
* Agent
* CLI

`[-$purpose]`:: Optional to describe purpose of the tool

Examples:

* syn-cli-compile
* syn-operator-tenant
* syn-agent

> 

Reviewer 3: Here's an alternative proposal:

```
== Design Proposal 2

Tools must have descriptive display names of the form `Syn ${type}[ ${purpose}]`.
By default the binary name for a tool would be `syn-$type[-$purpose]`, but deviations are allowed, see below.

[... explanation for $type and $purpose can be copied from the original proposal ...]

=== Allowed deviations between tool and binary name

A tool's binary is allowed to deviate as long as it is discoverable with `syn<Tab><Tab>`, and the suffix is well known as a particular type of tool.

Examples where deviation is OK:

* The Syn Catalog Compiler, could have the binary name `syncc`, because nobody wants to type `syn-catalog-compiler`, and `cc` is well known as indicating a compiler (technically `cc` is the suffix indicating a C compiler, but luckily catalog also starts with a c).
* The Syn CLI could have the binary name `synctl` to match `kubectl`. `kubectl` should be immediately familiar to all users of Project Syn, so it would be nice if the Project Syn CLI would have a matching binary name.

== Drawbacks

=== Name tied to functionality

Descriptive names will tie functionality of the tooling to the name.
Allthough this isn't a drawback at first sight, it might become a drawback after some time as the tool advances and the functionality changes.
The tool would then need to be renamed which might impose a lot of work or a new tool with a new name would need to be created.

> It's not always easy to detect that the purpose of a tool has changed but might become obvious while the project proceeds and new knowledge get's gained.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's not always easy to detect that the purpose of a tool has changed but might become obvious as the project proceeds and new knowledge is gained.
```

= SDD 0024 - Project Syn Tools Naming Scheme v2

:sdd_author:    Tobias Brunner
:sdd_owner:
:sdd_reviewers:
:sdd_date:      2020-10-23
:sdd_status:    accepted
include::partial$meta-info-table.adoc[]

[NOTE]
.Summary
====
Naming is hard, this page helps to make it easy. It describes the rules to name Project Syn tools.
====

== Motivation

In xref:0002-naming-scheme.adoc[SDD 0002 - Naming Scheme] a naming scheme was defined for Project Syn tools which turned out to be sub-optimal.
Having tools with non-descriptive names increases the (already relatively high) barrier of entry into the world of Project Syn.
This SDD describes a more descriptive naming scheme which solves this issue.

=== Goals

* Naming scheme which is descriptive
* Applicable to all new tools from now on

=== Non-Goals

* Renaming of existing tools (like Lieutenant, Steward and Commodore) as they will change over time anyways, ultimately being replaced by newer tools.

== Design Proposal

> Tools must have descriptive display names of the form `Syn ${type}[ ${purpose}]`.

Reviewer 4: I prefer to have the type at the end. It feels more natural when speaking.

```suggestion
Tools must have descriptive display names of the form `Syn[ ${purpose}] ${type}`.
```

Reviewer: Maybe we could loosen this up even further and don't require a certain ordering of the purpose and type?

Reviewer 4: No, not defining the order will results in both variants. This can again be confusing. You never now if tool use one or the other order. This makes it hard for the muscle memory.

> By default the binary name for a tool would be `syn-$type[-$purpose]`, but deviations are allowed, see below.

Reviewer 3: Now the two sentences have mixed name formats. Display name is `Syn[ ${purpose}] ${type}`, but binary name is `syn-${type}[-${purpose}]`. Is this intentional?

`$type`:: Describes the kind of the tool.
+
Examples for types:

* Operator
* Agent
* CLI

`$purpose`:: Optional to describe purpose of the tool

> Examples:
> 
> * syn-cli-compile
> * syn-operator-tenant
> * syn-agent

Reviewer 3: These may need updating as well, depending on how we want binary names to work now. It may make sense to extend the examples with display names:

```suggestion
Examples:

* "Syn Compile CLI" -- `syn-cli-compile`
* "Syn Tenant Operator" -- `syn-operator-tenant`
* "Syn Agent" -- `syn-agent`
```

=== Allowed deviations between tool and binary name

A tool's binary is allowed to deviate as long as it's discoverable with `syn<Tab><Tab>`, and the suffix is well known as a particular type of tool.

Examples where deviation is OK:

> * The Syn Catalog Compiler, could have the binary name `syncc`, because nobody wants to type `syn-catalog-compiler`, and `cc` is well known as indicating a compiler (technically `cc` is the suffix indicating a C compiler, but luckily catalog also starts with a c).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Syn Catalog Compiler could have the binary name `syncc`, because nobody wants to type `syn-catalog-compiler`, and `cc` is well known as indicating a compiler (technically `cc` is the suffix indicating a C compiler, but luckily catalog also starts with a c).
```
